---
Date: 2021-10-26
Author: Jimmy Briggs <jimmy.briggs@jimbrig.com>
Source: kindle
Link:
---
# Evernote

## Metadata
- Author: [[Kimberly Eddy]]
- Full Title: Evernote
- Category: #Type/Highlights/Books

## Highlights
- The notebooks titled, “Web Site Drafts” and “Web Site Fixes” contain a couple of notes with drafts of blog posts or specific issues I need to fix on my web ([Location 269](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=269))
- site. If a problem occurs on my web site or on a site I manage for a client, I make a note for the problem, then later I’ll record the solution. Once I finish fixing the problem, I move the note to a different notebook stack I have where I save useful information and tutorials. ([Location 270](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=270))
- The Upcoming Notebook Stack ([Location 276](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=276))
- The next notebook stack is for Upcoming Projects. ([Location 277](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=277))
- Someday and Done Stacks ([Location 284](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=284))
- Someday, Someday Someday is where every idea goes that I am not acting on right now, and can’t even think about at the moment. Someday also acts as a sort of bucket list for my life. This particular notebook stack, working in conjunction with my Inbox notebook, has saved my sanity and helped me maintain focus. Those crazy business ideas or home redecorating ([Location 286](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=286))
- Any metaphorical “shiny object” that grabs my attention and wants to be toyed with, I stick in there so my brain can rest, knowing that this Great New Idea is safe and secure. No need to obsess about it today. ([Location 291](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=291))
- The Someday notebook stack also includes things like a notebook for the trip to China and India that Hubby and I hope to take in the next couple of years. There’s also a crazy idea for an irrigation system for the garden. I sketched the irrigation system on a napkin, photographed the napkin, and stuck the note/photo into the Garden Ideas notebook. ([Location 292](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=292))
- Done: My Productivity Tracker ([Location 295](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=295))
- The Purpose and Priorities Notebook ([Location 301](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=301))
- I put a notebook at the top of my stacks entitled “0-Purpose and Priorities.” The “0” keeps it on top! In this Evernote notebook, I file notes for my personal mission statement, my annual goals, as well as this month’s goals. I also include a note titled “Master List.” This one changes from week to week. The Master List itemizes all the step by step to-dos I have to do this week. This note doesn’t have any details, but it does link to details. It’s good for me to have my goals and mission statement front and center in my life.  Ever since I really grabbed hold of Stephen Covey’s book, The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, I realized I do better in ([Location 302](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=302))
- The Templates Stack I built a stack of notebooks for templates. I use templates for things like my generic to-do list for clients when they order my basic WordPress configuration package, as well as the contract I ask them to sign. I have a nicer looking contract on my hard drive, but I like to keep the basic text of the contract easily accessible. Since Evernote stores notes in the cloud, I never run the risk of losing the wording for my contract. I have generic to-do lists for… ([Location 312](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=312))
- I made a checklist for all the settings to use in Microsoft Word when formatting an ebook for Kindle and other e-readers too. In the same notebook, for publishing, I also have checklists for self-editing. My template stack… ([Location 320](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=320))
- The Tutorials Stack The notebook stack labeled “Tutorials” contains notebooks and notes linking to different tutorials I frequently reference for my business and life. For example, I have one notebook titled “Google Products” and in it I keep notes reminding me how to create funnels and… ([Location 323](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=323))
- The Table of Contents Most of my notebooks include a table of contents that I update regularly when I change the notebook. Some of them I don’t bother with as they are not too full. But if you have a notebook with a great deal of information, you may want to do this. To create a table of contents in a notebook, select all the notes in the notebook using your mouse and the shift key. A pop-up window will prompt you to select a task. You can share these notes with someone, merge them together into one note, move them… ([Location 329](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=329))
- Personalize Evernote As you can tell from my setup, the real benefit for Evernote is that, like bullet journaling, you can make it entirely yours. Evernote is both flexible and powerful, even in the free version. You can make it as complicated or as simple as you need it to be to work for you. Next I’ll share more detail on other features that help me make the most of… ([Location 338](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=338))
- Follow Ups Sometimes when I contact a client or a potential client, they tell me, “I’m interested, but now is not a good time. Can you contact me again in a couple of weeks?” I keep notes for each potential client or former client in my Evernote notebook titled “Clients and Leads.” To protect privacy in the case of a data breach (notes are stored in the cloud, after all), I do not include sensitive information in my client notes. ([Location 378](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=378))
- Renewals Another way I use reminders in Evernote is to scan bills or reminders into Evernote using my cell phone, and set a reminder for a week before this bill is due. For example, I recently used this for my summer taxes. They send the bill out several months before payment is due, so far in advance that I usually forget it. Instead, for the last several years, I’ve set a reminder for a week before the due date, with important but non-sensitive information included ([Location 386](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=386))
- Car Maintenance I also keep track of my car’s maintenance records in a notebook for my car. I set up reminders for oil changes and other maintenance matters. This has been very helpful to me, as I generally forget about these kinds of things otherwise, or cannot reminder the last time something was done to the car. Instead, right there in Evernote, I have scans of my service records for my car in case there is ever a problem, as well as reminders for the next date of service. Obviously, for security purposes, I make sure that no account numbers or sensitive information is on these scans when I import them. Though you can encrypt text in Evernote notes, this is not a foolproof protection against hackers. ([Location 393](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=393))
- Chapter Four: Naming Notes and Tags ([Location 406](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=406))
- Comparing my Evernote setup once more to the piles of notebooks and papers that used to sit on my desk, it’s far easier and faster to find anything I need in Evernote than it had been to look through the piles of stuff I used to store my brain in. We can make finding what we need when we need it even faster and easier when we are naming and tagging our notes. ([Location 407](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=407))
- Keys to Naming Notes in Evernote We want to name things in Evernote so we know at a glance what is in the note without having to open it and skim. I find this is particularly important when using reminders, as my reminders show up on my Google Calendar as the note’s title with no other context.… ([Location 410](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=410))
- Tagging Notes in Evernote Tags are a kind of label we can add to each note. There is no limit to the number of tags you can add to a note, but again, less is more. Don’t go overboard. The two words you want to think when tagging are simple and descriptive. Tags do help when you are using the search feature in Evernote, although I don’t consider that the primary function of the tags. In Evernote, in the sidebar, there is a listing for “tags.” By clicking on that, I can see all the tags I have used. Or not… ([Location 416](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=416))
- Tags to… ([Location 425](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=425))
- Read – books or articles you’re saving to read later. I originally had a notebook for my reading list, but I found it easier to save book recommendations and article bookmarks… ([Location 427](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=427))
- Watch – is similar to “read.” I use this one for recommendations for movies, tv shows, YouTube… ([Location 430](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=430))
- Buy –products that I would like to buy or services recommend to me. Sometimes I take a photograph in Evernote… ([Location 431](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=431))
- Months and Holidays – I have… ([Location 433](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=433))
- every month of the year, which I use for projects or ideas that are more seasonal in nature, such as Zazzle designs I’m working on or blog posts that are… ([Location 434](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=434))
- Receipts – I told how you I store my bills and scans of other paperwork with reminders attached to them. Whenever I save a receipt or a bill, I always tag it “… ([Location 436](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=436))
- Names of Clients and Family Members – I also use the names of clients and family members when tagging notes, so that I can use the name to find notes more easily. For example, as we get closer to Christmas, I will save picture notes of products I’ve photographed in the stores or bookmark notes of products at Amazon that are tagged “buy” and “[family member’s name]” in order to give me ideas when putting my Christmas list together. This… ([Location 438](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=438))
- Evernote’s tags can also be nested. That is, you can create a main parent tag, with more specific child tags nested under them. To nest one tag under another tag, just drag and drop the child tag onto the parent tag. How does this work for me? I’ll use the example of the tag for “Buy.” Under the tag “Buy,” I created other tags like “Kitchen Supplies,” “Office Supplies,” “Business Needs,” “Christmas Gifts,” and so forth. Say I’m out shopping, and I see something I like and I’m not able to purchase it, but I want to remember it. I take a photo of it in Evernote with my phone’s Evernote Mobile app (selecting “photo note” option) and tag it “Kitchen Supplies.”  When I do this in a store, I try to also get the SKU number and the manufacturer… ([Location 443](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=443))
- Think Usability Ultimately, no one is going to give you a grade for your Evernote naming conventions or taxonomy. As you set up your Evernote system and create tags, think in terms of what will be most useable as you are deep in your workflow. With a great system in place, you shouldn’t have to stop and think ([Location 462](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=462))
- Chapter Five: Linking and Merging notes The ability to link notes together in Evernote is one of the more robust features of this program, and is very handy for project management. Linking notes together, or adding links to other notes within a note, makes it easier to keep track of multiple notes for the different aspects of a project. For a large project, such as a client web site, I use this feature. I start with a checklist of what needs to be done and what core content I want to create. Then I link to the individual notes that discuss my ideas for these updates, as well as the actual content itself. I turn each line of my to-do list into a link to another note with more details, research, or draft copies of the content I need to create. You can’t do that with a paper planner, can you? ([Location 469](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=469))
- Practical Uses for the Link Feature I’ve already talked about my own favorite use for Evernote’s link feature: adding links to my to-do list. Here are some other ways I’ve used the link feature in Evernote to improve my workflow and productivity, plus some more details on how I use this in my to-do list. The Linked To-Do List ([Location 483](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=483))
- When to Link and When to Merge Truth be told, figuring out when to merge and when to link is more difficult for me than actually linking and merging. Most of the time, I prefer to link notes together, arranging the topics in one long to-do list or editorial calendar. I choose to merge notes when my notes essentially repeat the same thing in a different way. ([Location 540](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=540))
    - Tags: [[favorite]] 
- Chapter Six: Templates ([Location 546](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=546))
- Templates Templates WP Templates Publish Templates Email Templates TimeMGT Templates Social Media Templates Sales ([Location 559](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=559))
- Ideas for Templates In previous chapters I’ve shared how I use templates in my own Evernote setup. Really, the possibilities for using templates are endless. As with anything else in Evernote, the templates you create are based on your own needs. Here are some additional ideas for Evernote Templates. ([Location 583](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=583))
- My Goals ([Location 586](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=586))
- You’ve probably observed that I’m really big on setting clearly defined, achievable goals, and working with laser-like focus towards those goals. The truth be told, my obsession with goals doesn’t spring from my natural sense of order, but rather out of a need to reign in my ADHD and natural disorder. Each year, I create a new list of goals I’m working towards based on my overall Personal Mission Statement. Because I’ve found a setup that works well for me, I’ve created my Goal Sheet as a template that I use each year, editing the specifics as needed. Client Work Contracts As I’ve mentioned before, I keep the wording of my client contracts handy in my Evernote setup. This allows me to easily reference what we’ve mutually promised with regards to each job. Having the language in one place (saved in the cloud), allows me to always have the wording available to copy and paste as needed. ([Location 587](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=587))
- Process Checklists This is another template I’ve mentioned before. If you find yourself running through the same process repeatedly for similar jobs, a process checklist is helpful to keep yourself on track and reminded of all the tiny details. When I complete a basic Wordpress Configuration for a client, the steps remain the same. I save myself time by having the checklist already created. ([Location 596](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=596))
- Tables for a Calendar The ability to create tables in Evernote can be helpful for creating Calendars, Daily Planner pages, etc. Many of the templates at the Evernote web site are table layouts. I’ve also created one of my goals checklists, based on the Napoleon Hill Year End Assessment, in a tabular format. This enables me to run down the list, and grade myself with notes as I seek to improve in different areas of my life.  You can find this on my web site. ([Location 600](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=600))
- Self-Publishing Checklists ([Location 605](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=605))
- and Information I have created several ebooks for Amazon Kindle. There are many things that I need to do, over and above writing and editing my ebooks, to get them ready for publishing on Kindle. I used to have to look up that information every time I needed it. Then I turned the process into a final checklist that’s much easier to find and use. Furthermore, I’ve also created a checklist for marketing my ebooks, as well as notes that contain both a simple elevator pitch for each ebook as well as longer sales copy. These aren’t Evernote templates in the usual sense, in that I’m not going to duplicate a note that contains my sales copy for an ebook. However, I have that copy handy to copy and paste into other places, such as on my web site or on social media. ([Location 605](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=605))
- also have a series of notes that comprise FAQs about me and my business. I try to keep my branding consistent (a goal from a few ([Location 613](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=613))
- years ago), and having available the answers to questions I get frequently is very handy. Sometimes it’s essential! If my brain is in a different zone, I don’t want to have to go through the effort to remember the exact answer to that question. Instead, the information is at my fingertips in Evernote. I also have standard sales copy for things like the title and description of Zazzle products, or my freelance elevator pitch and social media bio. By not having to remember tedium, I can free up brain cells for the fun stuff, like the development of my creative endeavors. I find it more difficult to be freely creative when I’m trying to remember a bunch of other information. But my brain is able to relax and do what it loves to do when it knows the needed but boring information is safely stored where we can find it later. Organizing Templates In the chapter on my Evernote setup, I mentioned ([Location 614](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=614))
- templates. I keep a special notebook stack with notebooks and notes that serve as templates for information I use frequently. This isn’t the only method for organizing templates, but it is the method that works best for my system. I have known others to keep templates stored in the notebooks and stacks that relate to that topic, but I’ve found it easier to keep these separate and outside of my prioritized workflow. For example, I try to keep my Current Projects stack focused on what is important right now, instead of full of template notes mixed with notes I’m currently using. By sorting my templates into their own notebooks and tagging them appropriately, I ensure I’ll always find them when I need them. ([Location 622](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=622))
- Customizing Emailed Notes When emailing notes to Evernote, those notes go into the default notebook you’ve set up. For me, this is the Inbox notebook I told you about earlier. I use Inbox as a holding zone for information until I’m able to process it properly. Although emailed notes will go to the default notebook if you merely send them in, you can customize each email too. Emailed notes can be controlled and customized using the subject line in the email ([Location 726](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B077CK6SKR&location=726))
